hey guys Allen hain here the lawn care
nut with a quick lawn question and
answer so one of the questions I do get
often is hey al what do the numbers on
the bag of fertilizer stand for or what
are the numbers on the bags of
fertilizer mean that's a great question
because that's really the key to
starting a proper application of
fertilizer or other lawn product so what
those numbers stand for are nitrogen
phosphorus and potassium or potash in PK
what we call this is analysis by weight
or the guaranteed analysis so for this
Lesko starter fertilizer at 18 for
nitrogen that means that 18 percent of
the bag is nitrogen 24 percent phosphate
and 12 percent potassium or potash
that's important for when you're going
to go and put an application down and
I'll link below to some other videos
that show you exactly how to put down
fertilizer and how much fertilizer to be
putting down so let's talk about NPK
real quick so nitrogen its primary goal
is to turn the grass green and to make
it grow and I'll link below in the
description to a video I did on what
does or what's the best way to have a
green lawn the second one phosphorus
that's really going to be designed to
help root growth and root development so
phosphorus is going to be more important
in the fall it's also important to
understand that a lot of municipalities
around the country in North America have
actually banned phosphorus use due to
some negative effects can have on
waterways and then the last potash or
potassium that one's designed just to
kind of help with overall health so the
health and vigor these are the macro
nutrients that you're going to find in
almost every fertilizer that you buy for
your lawn there are also a number of
micronutrients which we're not talking
about here but a couple of those could
be calcium or iron so there you go
that's what the numbers on the bag of
the fertilizer mean I'll link below in
the description to some other videos I
did that would also be helpful and you
know shedding a little light and helping
you understand a little bit more about
fertilizer rates and how to apply i'm
allen hain the lawn care nut thanks for
listening and I will see you in the lawn